Hello everyone.
So let's discuss about the two important matter to retry the individual roles available in your data
frame.
So one is a dot log matter and another one is a dot.
I log mental now the object behind both of this matter is exactly same to the trial the individual rows
of your neck.
But with two different kinds of mechanism.
So let us first create our data frame object.
Then we'll see how to use this dart LLC and not a lot matter to retry the individual rows of data frame
object.
So for the illustration purposes they can one data set like a drink not CSB fine.
Let me just open it and let me just close this file browser.
So this dataset is all about the different countries available on our planet alcohol consumption.
So for each of the three days a beer serving Dennis spirit serving wine serving total liters of alcohol
could Simpson has been associated with every single country and a last column has been associated that
particular country belongs to which quantity.
OK so let's eat this drinks not CSB fine.
Let me just first import find this library
and we are going to use as well read and as closely as we might have to read this links not fine.
So now you can see we got a brand new data frame object.
Now that is a one little modification I want to do at this moment.
Now as for the illustration purpose of this dark block and I lost my turn which we are going to learn
in this video I just want to make this country as our indexing column rather than our default indexing
like credit and label based indexing our default indexing in this case is number based indexing.
So let's make one more argument let's apply one more argument like a index column.
So an index column I'm just going to pass like a country.
So now every single law I can access with the country also sort of indelible dot not matter.
We'll see about it and I can access with the number based indexing also with not i lock my tag.
So let me just execute and just observe the change.
Now you can see our index column has been highlighted with a very bold letter in a very first column.
So that is a next column and that is a very unique value because every single country has a vinyl record
associated in our dataset.
Let me just assign it to the data object
let me just display the first few records.
So we have our individual draw has been associated with one country.
Now let's dive into that block my time not a lot.
So first let's concentrate on a lot.
So let's say if you want to grab the information of let's say the country like Albania.
So we can use like later block.
So this is a kind of one property and year as a bracket notation you can pass it like a rich countries
information you want to retrieve.
So let's say Albania.
So I can just simply pass like Albania now in the earlier videos of this data from sex and we already
learn about how to drive the individual column.
So in those keys we'll just directly supplied this bracket notation on top of data frame object.
So whenever you do not use such a kind of property like daughter Lucy in that case it will the crowd
that particular column.
Now as we are explicitly using this not lock property and on top of that we are just passing as a bracket
notation that which particular rows you want to retrieve it.
It will require particular rows that added that in column.
So that is a difference I would just want to highlight here.
Now you can see Vio got the information about the country like Albania.
Let's try with some other countries.
So let's say later Ok let's try it.
Let's say we have a country India.
So we have a India has be serving information is like a nine.
So compared to Albania it's a truly as you can see that it's serving is close the same line serving
is also in case of India.
It's close to zero compared to this Albania.
It's a 54 and is there a specific reason like appointing here to continue this.
So in both of the case it has written a brand new C.D. object for us and both of the cities object has
a name that I like an object and a name has been associated with that particular index column value.
Like in this case it's Albania.
In this case it's India.
Now let's say you want to grab more than one country's information or more than one rolls of information
at a one shot rather than one one contains information so you can use the same property like dot LOC
but now instead of passing just one single string you can pass the list optionally.
So let's say the same to country will take.
So now part of bracket notice are inside this bracket notation.
We have to pass the list of values.
So again I am putting the bracket notation so outer bracket notation is corresponding to this not lost
property values.
You know bracket notation corresponding to this list of where we want to pass.
Okay.
So let's take Albania first Albania and another one is like in India.
Let me just execute or before I execute.
Just think about it.
What kind of data type or what kind of data structure it would written us because in earlier case we're
just asking for one rows of information.
Now we are asking for the two rows of information.
So let me just execute.
Now you can see we've got a brand new data frame object and every single row has been associated with
the value we help pass like Albania and India and for Albania and India both of them as written or list
of values.
And now let's say if you want to grab just two columns let's say spirits serving either wine Sally you
can just simply use this particular data frame as another bracket you can pass it like the same.
We really drive the column because now this full statement is equivalent to the one data offering.
Let me pass the argument.
Let's say the blind study
and another argument let's say the continent
so you can see we'll just retry that particular column line serving in a continent for the two country
like Albania and India.
OK let's let's try it some more country.
So let's say we won.
Somehow we passed the some countries name which doesn't exist.
So let's along with the Albania and India.
Let's buy somewhere containing which definitely doesn't exist let's say x y z and let's see what it
return.
Now you can see it has returned us with a warning message that future warning there is some missing
label.
And in the future it will throw some sort of key error.
So as of now it has not written any kind of error but just with a warning.
But in a future was an not find us it is saying that there will be a key error very.
Now if you consider as far as Albania India is concerned.
That is all good and a fine but in case of this another country which doesn't exist in our data dataset
like our X Files yet for all the values of that particular rule it is not which is indicating that it's
not unknown what are kind of missing value you know what I say.
OK now let's say we want to grab the range of values.
So before that let me just display first few records again.
So let's display looks at 10 records.
Now you can see all the country has been starting with the category.
So let's say you want to grab all the countries between Algeria and Australia like Algeria and Australia
so you can use those kind of slicing and dicing to reclaim the range of values.
So same dark block we are going to use an insight that we are going to pass now a colon before colon
the first index value will pass and after colon the last index value or end index where we are going
to pass and what they were all results exist between these two index value it will look private.
So let's say the first value let's say we'll talk about Algeria
and let's say done under one Latika Australia.
So now you can see every single country has returned which is between Algeria and Australia.
You know what I say in all of this column it is written.
Now the same way you can grab individual columns of let's say you want to just crapper.
Let's say one column like a bit sorry for this particular country you can collaborate like this.
So now you can see whenever we try to snatch in one single column in that case it has written a series
object but in earlier case we tried to snatch a two column in this case.
So in that case it has written a brand new data frame object.
So that is a tumble in the spine does that anywhere you try to snatch one single roll or a one single
column in that case it will be done a cities object.
Otherwise it will retain the data frame object.
OK.
So it's all about not lost matter.
That how to try out the individual rows with the help of this label based indexing.
Now let's talk about I look.
So the objective behind as I look is exactly similar has that not lost matter.
The only difference is that you can now grab the individual rows of information with digital base indexing
also.
So let's see the door.
I know.
Now instead of passing label based indexing you can pass the number base indexing so let's say the first
record was index is zero.
So you can see the first record is like Afghanistan.
So let's then form it.
So first the record is Afghanistan which is having all values at zero and this is your specific.
So let's see what it has written.
So you can see every single values Tito and continents is let's try to grab some other.
So let's say they lock let's say the sixth row so was in next well you will be fine.
So five will be and you're fine.
Next number belongs to Antigua and Barbuda.
OK.
So this are my guests on my slate nine.
So that is how you can reclaim individual rows of information with additional base argument.
Now let's say simply you want to grab the range of features so you can use the same slicing or distance
so let's say you want to grab all the countries whose indexing are starting from 0 let's say 5.
Let's say I do let's say then.
And let me just execute it.
Now you can see it as written in all countries was indexing values has been starting from fights or
fires pointing to Antigua and Barbuda that 60s Argentina 70s Armenia 80s Australia and 90s Austria but
then has been excluded because in this slicing notice and mostly this upper bound is excluded.
Now let's say instead of range of countries name you want to grab some particular three countries names
so instead of passing just the one value you can pass the list of value the same way Rio done it you.
Allotment.
So let's say was indexing let's say three or seven product well let me just execute it.
So trees corresponding to Andorra so is corresponding to Armenia and Ralph's corresponding to bearing.
OK so that is all about the dot log matter and Dot I not matter.
Let me just summarize it whenever you want to retract any rows of information based on your label based
indexing in that case.
Always use this dark block matter and find this community also prefers to use this dark block metal
and I lock meter to retry individual rows of information and you can use this dot I lock meter to retry
individual rows of information based on your positional indexing like a number of these indexing which
starting from numbers 0 1 2 in a sequential order.
OK so that is all about the dot log matter and Dot I lock meter.
I hope you enjoy listening to Syria and seeing the next video.